I have been though breakups and breakup like experiences lot of times in my life. So i am pretty much experienced in this regard in i can speak about it. 


- Breakups do hurt on the emotional level and its okay and normal

The thought of getting apart from someone you love is very sad, so on the emotional level we do indeed feel hurt / get hurt because of breakups.And this is completely normal. 

But with time most of the people will heal. An emotional wound is pretty much like a physical wound. 

Just like physical would need a bandage and protection, emotional wound also need protection and bandage. 

If you have been emotionally wounded , it is quite reasonable and okay and alright that the person would avoid, hesitant to get in the situations. which pose similar risks. The risk of getting hurt again. 

For example: if the person has gone through breakup in relationship she/he might avoid dating the other person until they have been completely healed. 

If the person has gone through emotionally traumatic situation, he/she might avoid all the 

people might develop fear of certain location, 
certain people and 
certain situation.

Be known that such responses are reasonable and normal part of human existance. 

I would quote another example: 

I had been through a very traumatic situation. In my younger years, i put a lot of pressure on myself to succedd and hence pressured myself to perform better at exams. 
This made preparation for exams a very traumatic experience. 

It was quite a dellimma, Because i really wanted to avoid all of that trauma and i didnt wanted to face the exams. But i could not graduate until i have faced all the exams. 

And i really do wanted to graduate, because i could not imagine my life and future without a college degree and graduation. SO even if i didnt liked it and even though preparing for examinations seemed to me like facing a trauma. I didnt really had an option of avoiding it and getting rid of it. 

I could have taken a break from college, but i dint consider that option because i was so damn crazy about having / an obligation to succeed in my life. 

At the end of this rad race, i ended up burning my soul, and hurting my soul, because my soul needed some rest, it wanted to relax, but due to my ambitions, i pressured my soul to go though all of that trauma. 

At the end of this brutual rat race and all of that trauma i indeed learned few very useful lessons which i think is quite useful for myself and i would surely be very happy if other peopel could benefit from it. 

The lessons that i learned was : 

1. Finding Happness is more important than finding financial success and credentials. ANd higher 
2. We often think that happiness comes from financial achievements, credentials, and reaching a higher social status in society. But these perceptions may not be true. Atleast not for everyone. 

I would like to show a very nice quote from Jim Carrey: 

"I wish all the people get famous and successful and then they would know that it is the solution to every thing in life" 

The jim carrey intends to tell that despite finding fame, higher social status and he 


Now i am not saying that we should all become saints, and say that money is evil and avoid setting up bussiness, and earning money. No we still need to do that and its actually healthy for ouseelves and our society. 

The only thing i wish to tell everyone, is dont burn your soul for yous ambitions of achieving higher social status and higher financail status. 

If you are earning money , credentials at the cost of burning your soul, then its not worth it. 

Because we can find happiness even if we are broke. And we can be completely miserabe even if we are finaancieally sound. 

We often link happiness to fame, higher social status. But on the flipside the happiness is compltely opposite. 

You can find happiness in little things. Like a warm gesture from an unexpected stranger. But you may not be able to find the same happiness even from buying an expensive car like porshe and Mercedes. 


There are people who would say that i am saying this because because may be i am not rich and people who say such things. Because they do not have the ability to become rich. 

Earning lot of money is not a big deal. Its not such a difficult task. Most of the people who are greedy they are able to earn lot of money.
Not everyone who is rich is greedy. Sometimes people are simply lucky in their life.

But what i mean to say is earning lot of money is not such a difficult task. If you make it a goal in your life you put reasonable amount of efforts towards it you will surely someday become rich, filthy rich also maybe. 

But my question to you is even after becoming filthy rich and achiving all of those goals would you still find happiness. Would you still find peace in your life. 

The answer is Probably yes or probably no.

And my point is if earning lot of money will not give you happiness, is it even worth your efforts and your time. 


And by saying / telling you to avoid rat race for money, financial status. I am not saying that we should all be poor and happy. 

Because from my own experince poverty also will not give you happiness. Being poor is also miserable. So we should all strive to get educated. And strive to earn atleast which is enough for fulfilling our needs like a comfortable home, and having access to all the requirements in order to live a comfortable life for you and your family. 

And from current economic standards, even if you are a middle class person you would easily find a comfortable access to every thing. 






